BOOK ΙΙ. ΧοιΧ. 217—c. 219

But all the tides cover and lay bare greater spaces
in the ocean than in the rest of the sea, whether
because it is more furious when moved in its entirety
than when in part, or because the open extent feels
the force of the stara when it marches untrainmeled
with more effect, whereas narrow spaces hindei· the
force, which is the reason why neither lakes nor
rivers have tides like the ocean (Pytheas of Mar-
scilles states that north of Britain the tides rise
120 ft.) But also the morc inland scas are shut in
by land like the water in a harb0ur3 yet a more
untrammeled expanse is subject to the tidal sway,
inasmuch as there are several instances of people
making the crossing from Italy to Utica in two days
in a calm sea and with no wind in the sails when a
strong tide was running. But these motions are
observed more round the coasts than in the deep
sea, since in the body too the extremities are more
sensitive to the pulse of the veins, that is of the
breath. But in most estuaries owing to the different
risings of thc stars in each region the tides occur
irregularly, varying in time though not in method‚
as for instance in the Syrtes.

C. And nevertheless some tides have a special
nature, for instance the channel at Taorniina b that
ebbs and flows more frequently, and the one at
Euboea that has seven tides in twenty-four hours.
The tide at Euboea stops three times a month‚ on
the seventh, eighth and ninth day aster the new
moon. At Cadiz the spring nearest the shrine of
Hercules, which is enclosed like a wcll‚ sometimes
rises and sinks with the ocean and sometimes does
both at the contrary periods; a second spring in the
same place agrees with the motions of the ocean.

347

(lemn tides
lziqloer lla-‘m
those uf in-
land scus.

Escepez‘oval
local tides.

