BOOK Ι

xcii) Arteries, veins; species with neither veins nor
arteries; blood; sweat3 species whose blood
thickens most quickly, whose blood does not coagu-
late; which species has the thickest blood, the
thinnest‚ none at all, none at certain seasons of the
year; whether blood is dominant factor in body.
(xciii f.) Back3 hair and integument of back3 species
having hair inside mouth and under feet. (xcv-xcvii)
Paps; which birds have paps3 noteworthy points
about animals' udders3 milk; which the only animal
that gives suck while in motion3 biestings; cheese;
species whose milk does not form cheese3 curdled
milk3 kinds of food obtained from milk3 kinds of
cheese. (xcviii-cxiii) Differences in limbs between
man and other animals3 the fingers; arms3 resem-
blance to monkeys; nails; knees and thighs3 which
parts of human body associated With ritual ; dilated
veins; gaiis, feet and legs; hooves; feet of birds;
feet of animals, between 2 and 100 ; dwarfs ; genital
organs; hermaphrodites3 testicles; three kinds of
half-main tails3 voices of am‘mals3 limbs of
subsequent growth. (cxiv) Marks of vitality and
character derived from conformation of limbs in man.
(cxv) Respiration3 nutrition3 animals that from
eating poison do not die, but kill those who taste
them. (cxvii—ix) Causes of indigestion in man3
remedies for indigestion3 cause of corpulence, and
mode of reduction3 things whose taste allays hunger
and thirst. Total: 2700 facts, investigations and
observations.

Authorities: Marcus Varro, Hyginus, Scrofa,
Saserna, Cornelius Celsus, Aemilius Macer, Virgil,
Columella, Julius Aquila’s Etruscan System, Tar-
quitius disto, Umbricius Melior ditto, Cato the ex-

63

