BOOK II. Lv11. 147-L1X. 149

went bad; and similarly that it rained iron in the
district of Lucania the year before Marcus Crassus
was killed ‘² by the Parthians and with him all the
Lucanian soldiers, of whom there was a large con-
tingent in his army3 the shape of the iron that fell
resembled sponges b; the augurs prophecied wounds
from above. But in the consulship ⁶ of Lucius Paullus
and Gaius Marcellus it rained wool in the vicinity of
Compsa ‘² Castle‚ near which Titus Annius Milo was
killed a year later. It is recorded in the annals of
that year that while Milo was pleadjng a case in
court it rained baked bricks.

LVIII. We are told that during the wars with the Armies tn

Cimbri ε a noise of clanging armour and the sounding
of a trumpet were heard from the sky, and that the
same thing has happened frequently both before then
and later. In the third consulshjpf of Marius the
inhabitants of Ameria and Tuder? saw the spectacle
of heavenly armies advancing from the East and the
West to meet in battle, those from the West being
routed. It has often been seen, and is not at all
surprising‚ that the sky itself catches fire when the
clouds have been set on fire by an exceptionally
large flame.

LIX. The Greeks tell the story that Anaxagoras sun-s

of Clazomenae in the 2nd year ἢ of the 78th Olympiad
was enabled by his knowledge of astronomical
literature to prophecy that in a certain number of
days a rock would fall from the sun; and that this
occurred in the daytime in the Goat’s River district
of Thrace (the stone is still shown—it is of the size of
a wagon-load and brown in colour)‚ a comet also
blazing in the nights at the time. If anyone believes
in the fact of this prophecy, that involves his allowing

285

tlte sky.

