BOOK 1

bean—stone, pyren, purple-stone, hail-stone, pyritis,
striped-stone, lightning—stone, flame-stone‚ mal-stone,
enygros, bairy-stone, lion-stone, leopard—stone, dew-
stone, honey-colour-stone, honey-yellow-stone, gray-
stone, spartopolia, rose-stone, honey-stone, copper-
stone, fig-stone, ringlet—stone, ivory-marble, anancitis,
synochitis, trec-stone, snail-shell. Shape of precious
stones; method of testing3 natural properties
compared in various countries; products compared in
respect of price.-—Total‚ 1300 facts, investigations
and observations.

Authorities: Marcus Varro, Records of Triuwphs,
Maecenas, Iacchus, Cornelius Bocchus. Foreign
authorities: King Juba, Xenocrates son of Zeno,
Sudines, Aeschylus, Philoxenus, Euripides, Nicander,
Satyrus, Theophrastus, Chares, Philemon, Demo-
stratus, Zenothemis, Metrodorus, Sotacus, Pytheas,
Timaeus of Sicily, Nicias, Theochrestus, Asaruba‚
Mnaseas, Theomenes, Ctesias, Mithridates, Sophocles,
King Archelaus, Callistratus, Democritus, Ismenias,
Olympicus, Alexander the Lean-ned, Apion, Orus,
Zoroaster, Zachalias.

167

